Disparate Citation Patterns Between Chinese and American Research Communities at a Unified Venue Abstract At NeurIPS, there is a tendency for American and Chinese institutions to cite papers from within their own regions substantially more often than they cite papers from the other region. To measure this divide, we construct a citation graph, compare it to European connectivity, and discuss both the causes and consequences of this separation. 1 Introduction In recent years, the machine learning research community has been transformed by the rise of Chinese AI research. China is now consistently the second-largest contributor of publications at NeurIPS, following the United States. In 2020, 13.6% of all NeurIPS publications came from Chinese institutions. The next year, this increased to 17.5%, a relative increase of 28.7%. Despite China s position as a leader in AI research, collaborations between Chinese and American institutions are less common than collaborations between American and Western European institutions. Anecdotally, researchers from these regions often form distinct social groups at machine learning conferences. This separation is not limited to just social interactions. A prominent professor in an applied area of machine learning publicly advised students to avoid talks by Chinese authors, arguing that their presentations would be difficult to understand or of poor quality. Although many non-native English speakers find it a challenge to speak in public, avoiding talks by Chinese researchers may limit a conference attendee s exposure to new topics and ideas. This study measures the separation between researchers in China and the United States. We use NeurIPS citation data to analyze the impact of work from US-based and China-based institutions, and find that Chinese institutions under-cite work from the US and Europe, and that both American and European institutions under-cite work from China. 2 Citation Networks 2.1 Methods To quantify the divide between the regions, we compiled a citation graph using NeurIPS paper citation data from SemanticScholar and institutional information about authors from AMiner. We first collected all paper titles from NeurIPS from 2012 to 2021 from the NeurIPS website. Using the Semantic Scholar Academic Graph (S2AG) API, we then mapped paper titles to their Semantic Scholar paper IDs. For unmatched papers we manually searched, finding all but one in the Semantic Scholar database. We then used the S2AG API to identify the authors of each paper as well as the authors of papers referenced by these papers. We used AMiner to identify institutional information for each author. The 9460 NeurIPS papers have 135,941 authors in total, of which we found institutions for 83,515 (61%). The 4038 papers lacking author information were excluded from the dataset. We then automatically identified institutes that included a country name, along with common cities and regions in China. We augmented these automatic annotations with existing regional matchings and added 364 additional rules. Finally, we . removed major multinational corporate labs (e.g., Google, Meta, Microsoft, Tencent, Alibaba, or Huawei). Of the remaining 5422 papers, we removed papers that were not from China, the US, or Europe, or included collaborators in multiple regions, leaving 1792 papers. Finally, we computed the average number and proportion of citations between papers from each region, shown in Figure 1. 2.2 Results We observed the extent to which American and Chinese papers fail to cite each other. While American papers constitute 60% of our dataset, they only account for 34% of citations made by Chinese papers. American citations of Chinese papers are even more striking: while Chinese papers account for 34% of our dataset, they are only cited in 9% of American